
## T1
### S1
Questions 1-6
Complete the notes below.
Write ONE WORD for each answer.
SECTION 1 Questions 1-10

Example
Name:
SELF-DRIVE TOURS IN THE USA
Name: Andrea ...Brown...

Address: 24 1 .....Ardleigh.......Road         
Postcode: BH5 20P
Phone: (mobile) 077 8664 3091
Heard about company from : 2 ....newspaper.....  
Possible self-drive tours

Trip One:
• Los Angeles: customer wants to visit some 3 ......theme.......parks with her children 

• Yosemite Park: customer wants to stay in a lodge, not a 4 .....tent.......
lodge - 小屋
tent - 帐篷

Trip Two:
• Customer wants to see the 5 ......castle......on the way to Cambria

• At Santa Monica: not interested in shopping

• At San Diego, wants to spend time on the 6 ......beaches...........

Questions 7-10
Complete the table below.
            Number of days      Total distance              Price(per person)       Includes
Trip        One 12 days         7 ......2020....km               £525            •accommodation
                                                                                • car
                                                                                • one 8 ...flight...
                                                                            
Trip Two    9 days                  980 km                 9 £ .....429....... • accommodation
                                                                                • car
                                                                                • 10 ......dinner....
### S2
### S3
### S4
Complete the notes below.
Write ONE WORD ONLY for each answer.

THE SPIRIT BEAR

General facts
• It is a white bear belonging to the black bear family.

• Its colour comes from an uncommon 3 1 .........jean.......... gene

• Local people believe that it has unusual 3 2 .......power......... special

• They protect the bear from 3 3 ........strangers..........

Habitat
• The bear’s relationship with the forest is complex.

• Tree roots stop 3 4 ................along salmon streams.
erosion - 腐蚀

• The bears’ feeding habits provide nutrients for forest vegetation.

• It is currently found on a small number of 3 5 ......islands......

Threats
• Habitat is being lost due to deforestation and construction of  3 6 ....roads.........by logging companies.
    
• Unrestricted 3 7 .......fishing............is affecting the salmon supply.

• The bears’ existence is also threatened by their low rate of 3 8 .....reproduction...... 

Going forward
• Interested parties are working together.

• Logging companies must improve their 3 9 .....method.......of logging.

• Maintenance and 4 0 .......expansion....... of the spirit bears territory is needed.
also ... more expansion

## T2
### S1
SECTION 1 Questions 1-10
Complete the notes below.
Write ONE WORD AND/OR A NUMBER for each answer.

Transport Survey

Example
Travelled to town today: by ............bus............

Name: Luisa 1 .......Hardie...........   
Address: 2 .........19.....White Stone Rd
Area: Bradfield

Postcode: 3 .............GT82lC...............
Occupation: 4 .............hairdresser..................
hairdresser - 理发师
Reason for visit to town: to go to the 5 ........dentist...........

Suggestions for improvement:

• better 6 .............. ....lighting...
• have more footpaths
• more frequent 7 ...........trains..............

Things that would encourage cycling to work:

• having 8 ........safe...........parking places for bicycles

• being able to use a 9 ..........shower.............at work

• the opportunity to have cycling 1 0 .........training...........on busy roads

### S2
### S3
### S4
Complete the notes below.
Write ONE WORD ONLY for each answer.

THE FUTURE OF MANAGEMENT

Business markets

• greater 3 1 ........competition......... among companies

• increase in power of large 3 2 .........global..... companies
global corporations

• rising 3 3 ......demand......in certain countries

External influences on businesses 对外的影响

• more discussion with 3 4 ..........customers........ before making business decisions
consulting customers

• environmental concerns which may lead to more 3 5 ......regulation.............


Business structures 结构
• more teams will be formed to work on a particular 3 6 ...........project................

• businesses may need to offer hours that are 3 7 .....flexible....... or the
    chance to work remotely

Management styles
• increasing need for managers to provide good 3 8 ......leadership........

• changes influenced by 3 9 ......women......taking senior roles

Changes in the economy
• service sector continues to be important
• increasing value of intellectual property
• more and more 4 0 ....self-employed.....workers

## T3
### S1
SEC TIO N 1 Questions 1+10
Complete the form below.
Write ONE WORD AND/OR A NUMBER for each answer.

Early Learning Childcare Centre
Enrolment Form
Example
Parent or guardian: Carol......... Smith..........

Personal Details
Child’s name: Kate

Age: 1 ......4.......

Address: 2 ...46.Wombat.........Road, Woodside, 4032

Phone: 3345 9865

Childcare Information

Days enrolled for: Monday and 3 ..........Thursday...

Start time: 4 ...........8.30....... am

Childcare group: the 5 ....red........group

Which meal/s are required each day? 6 ........lunch.......

Medical conditions: needs 7 ...........glasses....................

Emergency contact: Jenny 8 ........Ball.......................Phone: 3346 7523

Relationship to child: 9 ..........Aunt............

Fees
Will pay each 1 0 ...........month............

### S2
### S3
### S4
'Self-regulatory focus theory' and leadership

Self-regulatory focus theory
People's focus is to approach pleasure or avoid pain
Promotion goals focus on 3 1 ...............................
Prevention goals emphasise avoiding punishment
Factors that affect people's focus

The Chronic Factor
• comes from one's 3 2 ...............................
The 3 3 ...............................Factor
• we are more likely to focus on promotion goals when with a 3 4 ............................
• we are more likely to focus on prevention goals with our boss
How people's focus affects them
Promotion Focus: People think about an ideal version of themselves, their
3 5 ...............................and their gains.
Prevention Focus: People think about their 'ought' self and their obligations
SECTION 4 Questions 31+40
62Listening
Leaders
Leadership behaviour and 3 6 ...............................affects people's focus
Transformational Leaders:
• pay special attention to the 3 7 ...............................of their followers
• passionately communicate a dear 3 8 ................................
• inspire promotion focus in followers

Transactional Leaders:
• create 3 9 ...............................to make expectations clear
• emphasise the results of a mistake
• inspire prevention focus in followers
Conclusion
Promotion Focus is good for jobs requiring 4 0 ...............................
Prevention Focus is good for work such as a surgeon
Leaders' actions affect which focus people use


## T4
### S1
SECTION 1 Questions 1+10
Questions 1-6
Complete the notes below.
Write ONE WORD ONLY for each answer.
THORNDYKE’S BUILDERS
Example
Customer heard about Thorndyke’s from a .................................
Name: Edith 1 ...............................
Address: Flat 4,
2 ................................ Park Flats
(Behind the 3 ...............................)
Phone num ber: 875934
B est t i m e t o c o n t a c t cust o m e r: during the 4 ..............................
W h e re to park: opposite entrance next to the 5 ............................
Needs full quote showing all the jobs and the 6 .................................

### S2
### S3
### S4

Questions 31-33
Choose the correct letter, A, B or C.
Nanotechnology: technology on a small scale
31 The speaker says that one problem with nanotechnology is that
    A.it could threaten our way of life,
    B.it could be used to spy on people,
    C.it is misunderstood by the public.
32 According to the speaker, some scientists believe that nano-particles
    A should be restricted to secure environments.
    B should be used with more caution.
    C should only be developed for essential products.
33 In the speaker s opinion, research into nanotechnology
    A has yet to win popular support,
    B could be seen as unethical,
    C ought to be continued     
    
Uses of Nanotechnology
Transport
• Nanotechnology could allow the development of stronger 3 4 ................
• Planes would be much lighter in weight.
• 3 5 ...............................travel will be made available to the masses.
Technology
• Computers will be even smaller, faster, and will have a greater
3 6 ................................
• 3 7 ...............................energy will become more affordable.
The Environm ent
• Nano-robots could rebuild the ozone layer.
• Pollutants such as 3 8 ................................. could be removed from water
more easily.
• There will be no 3 9 .............................. from manufacturing.
Health and Medicine
• New methods of food production could eradicate famine.
• Analysis of medical 4 0 ................................................. will be speeded up.
• Life expectancy could be increased.

