## T1
### S1
HIRING A PUBLIC ROOM
Example
the Main Hall - seats ......200...·

Room and cost
the 1 .......Charlton........ Room - seats 100   
Cost of Main Hall for Saturday evening: 2 £ ...115.........  
+ £250 deposit (3 ..........cash......... payment is required)  
Cost includes use of tables and chairs and also 4 ......parking.........  
Additional charge for use of the kitchen: £25

Before the event
Will need a 5 .......music...... licence 
Need to contact caretaker（Mr Evans) in advance to arrange
6 .......entry........  

During the event
The building is no smoking
The band should use the 7 .....stage..... door at the back 
• Don’t touch the system that controls the volume
• For microphones, contact the caretaker

After the event
Need to know the 8 .....code...... for the cleaning cupboard wash
inform of your code you need 
The 9 .......floors...... must be washed and rubbish placed in black bags 
sweep the floors 
All 10 ....decoration...... must be taken down  
Chairs and tables must be piled up 

### S2
### S3
### S4
Complete the notes below.
Write ONE WORD ONLY for each answer.
Ocean Biodiversity

Biodiversity hotspots
• areas containing many different species
• important for locating targets for 31 ......conservation...........
• at first only identified on land

Boris Worm, 2005
• identified hotspots for large ocean predators, e.g. sharks
• found that ocean hotspots: 
were not always rich in 32 ............... food
had higher temperatures at the 33 ....surface......
had sufficient 34 ......sport....... in the water oxygen
the water needed to have enough oxygen

Lisa Ballance, 2007
• looked for hotspots for marine 35 ........memor........ mammals - 哺乳动物
• found these were all located where ocean currents meet

Census of Marine Life
• found new ocean species living:
under the 36 .........ice.........
near volcanoes on the ocean floor

Global Marine Species Assessment
• want to list endangered ocean species, considering:
population size
geographical distribution
rate of 37 ......decline...... 
• Aim: to assess 20,000 species and make a distribution 38 ............ map
for each one

Recommendations to retain ocean biodiversity
• increase the number of ocean reserves
• establish 39 ......migration........... corridors (e.g. for turtles)
• reduce fishing quotas
• catch fish only for the purpose of 40 .....consumption.....

## T2
### S1
Complete the notes below.
Write ONE WORD AND/OR A NUMBER for each answer

Enquiry about joining Youth Council
Example
Name: Roger........Brown.................

Age: 18

Currently staying in a 1 ....hostel...... during the week

Postal address: 2 17, ........Buckleigh........ Street, Stamford, Lines 

Postcode: 3 ....PE97QT..........

Occupation: student and part-time job as a 4 ...waiter.......

Studying 5 .....politics.......... (major subject) and history (minor subject)

Hobbies: does a lot of 6 ......cycling...... , and is interested in the 
7 .....cinema.......
keen on 

33On Youth Council, wants to work with young people who are
8 .......disabled...........

Will come to talk to the Elections Officer next Monday at
9 ..........4.30............ pm

Mobile number：10 ....07788136711.......

### S2
### S3
### S4
Complete the notes below.
Write ONE WORD ONLY for each answer.

DESIGNING A PUBLIC BUILDING:
THE TAYLOR CONCERT HALL

Introduction
The designer of a public building may need to consider the building’S
• function
• physical and 31 ....social...... context  
• symbolic meaning

Location and concept of the Concert Hall
On the site of a disused 32 .......factory........ 

Beside a 33 .......canal........  canal - 运河
The design is based on the concept of a mystery

Building design
It’s approached by a 34 .....bridge........ for pedestrians
as people approach the entrance,they therefore have to across over a bridge
The building is the shape of a 35 ......box........   
One exterior wall acts as a large 36 ......screen........  

In the auditorium:
• the floor is built on huge pads made of 37 .......rubber ....... rubber
• the walls are made of local wood and are 38 ........curved........ in shape 
• ceiling panels and 39 ....curtains....... on walls allow adjustment of
acoustics

Evaluation
Some critics say the 40 .....international..... style of the building is inappropriate

## T3
### S1

### S2
### S3
### S4
Complete the notes below.
Write ONE WORD ONLY for each answer.

ETHNOGRAPHY IN BUSINESS ethnography

Ethnography: research which explores human cultures

It can be used in business:
• to investigate customer needs and 31 ....attitudes........
valuable information about 
• to help companies develop new designs

Examples of ethnographic research in business

Kitchen equipment
• Researchers found that cooks could not easily see the 32 ......numbers....... in measuring cups. 
numbers inside them, cook couldn't see easily

Cell phones
• In Uganda, customers paid to use the cell phones of entrepreneurs.

• These customers wanted to check the 33 .......time........ used. 

Computer companies
• There was a need to develop 34 ....standard.... to improve communication between system administrators and colleagues.
software help them to 

Hospitals
• Nurses needed to access information about 35 .......patients...... in different parts of the hospital. 

Airlines
Respondents recorded information about their 36 ....emotions........... while travelling
tracking their emotions

Principles of ethnographic research in business

• The researcher does not start off with a hypothesis.

• Participants may be selected by criteria such as age, 37 ......income........... or product used.

• The participants must feel 38 ........comfortable.......... about taking part in the research.

• There is usually direct 39 .............observation......... of the participants.

• The interview is guided by the participant.

• A lot of time is needed for the 40 ...........analysis......... of the data.
not on collecting of the data but on analysis

• Researchers look for a meaningful pattern in the data.

## T4
### S1

### S2
### S3
### S4

Complete the notes below.
Write ONE WORD ONLY for each answer.

The use of soil to reduce carbon dioxide (C02) in the atmosphere

Rattan Lal:
• Claims that 13% of C02 in the atmosphere could be absorbed by agricultural soils

• Erosion is more likely in soil that is 31 .......... dry 

• Lal found soil in Africa that was very 32 .......... hard
extremely hard 

• It was suggested that carbon from soil was entering the atmosphere

Soil and carbon:
• plants turn C02 from the air into carbon-based substances such as 33 .......sugars....
transform into sugars

• some C02 moves from the 34 ....roots......． the soil

• carbon was lost from the soil when agriculture was invented

Regenerative agriculture:

• uses established practices to make sure soil remains fertile and 35 ...moist....
fertile - 肥沃的
moist - 潮湿的

• e.g. through year-round planting and increasing the 36 ....variety...... of plants that are grown

California study:
• taking place on a big 37 .......c...... farm cattle
on a large cattle farm - 牛

• uses compost made from waste from agriculture and 38 .......gardens......

Australia study:
• aims to increase soil carbon by using 39 .......grasses........ that are always green

Future developments may include:
• reducing the amount of fertilizer used in farming

• giving farmers 40 .....payments....... for carbon storage, as well as their produce