## T5
10
30
53
74
### S1
SECTION 1 Questions 1-10
Complete the notes below.
Write ONE WORD AND/OR A NUMBER for each answer.
FAMILY EXCURSIONS
Cruise on a lake
Example
• Travel on an old .....steamship...
• Can take photos of the 1 ..............mountains.......... that surround the lakeFarm visit
• Children can help feed the sheep
• Visit can include a 40-minute ride on a 2 .........horse.....
• Visitors can walk in the farm's 3 ............... garden......... ...by the lake
• 4 ...... .Lunch.........is available at extra cost
Cycling trips
• Cyclists explore the Back Road
• A 5 ...........map... .........is provided
• Only suitable for cyclists who have some 6 ........experience..................... 
Bikes can be hired from 7 ......Ratchesons......... (near the Cruise ShipTerminal) 
10• Cyclists need:
a repair kit
food and drink
a 8 ............helmet......(can be hired)
• There are no 9 .....shops......or accommodation in the area Cost
• Total cost for whole family of cruise and farm visit: 10 $ ......267........

### S2
### S3

Paper on Public Libraries 

21 What will be the main topic of Trudie and Stewart's paper? 
A how public library services are organised in different countries 
B how changes in society are reflected in public libraries 
C how the funding of public libraries has changed 

22 They agree that one disadvantage of free digitalised books is that 
A they may take a long time to read. 
B they can be difficult to read. 
C they are generally old. 

23 Stewart expects that in the future libraries will 
A maintain their traditional function . 
B become centres for local communities. 
C no longer contain any books. 

Questions 24-30 
Complete the notes below. 
Write ONE WORD ONLY for each answer. 
Study of local library: possible questions 
• whether it has a 24 ..... ... ....... ... ... of its own 
• its policy regarding noise of various kinds 
• how it's affected by laws regarding all aspects of 25 ....... ... ..... ... .. . 
• how the design needs to take the 26 .......... ........... of customers into account 
• what 27 ...... ... ........ .. .. is required in case of accidents 
• why a famous person's 28 .......... ........... is located in the library 
• whether it has a 29 ..................... of local organisations 
• how it's different from a library in a 30 .... .... ............ .


21. main topic  B
a. organised
b. society are reflected
concentrate on this country try and  relate  changes   external  development like
far more people can read 
changes in society = external development
c. funding changed
- yes, but remember only 

22. agree disadvantage of free digitalised books 
- A B
hard to concentrate on reading  long screen 
when i am reading a long text on a 
it takes longer reading screen
oh,i prefer it , i suppose **personal preference**. 
- C
    - mostly **out of copyright**, aren't they? / old 版权过期的
    and copyright in this country last for 70 years after the author dies
    so you won't find the latest best-seller or or up to date information.
    - that's the important point.
23. Stewart expects future libraries.
A. but i am not so sure.
C. no longer contain any books
disappear,rows and rows of computer



24. 
25. employment lows
26. take safety into account = ensure the safety
27. in cases of accidents = get injured , insurance
28. a famous person = well-known politician ; got the diary of a well-know politician 
29. sports databases ;i wonder if they keep a database 
30. museum
- regard
    - about / concerning
    - best regard
    - respect / aspect
    - 看待
### S4
SECTION 4 Questions 31-40
Complete the notes below.
Write NO MORE THAN TWO WORDS for each answer.

Four business values

Many business values can result in 31 .......theoretical concepts......... ..   C:damage
they can actually cause damage.

Senior managers need to understand and deal with the potential  32 ...damage.......that may result. 
C:side affects


Collaboration

During a training course, the speaker was in a team that had to build a 33 ...bridge...... . . 

Other teams experienced 34 ...confusion.......  from trying to collaborate. 

The speaker's team won because they reduced collaboration.

Sales of a 35 .........market......were poor because of collaboration. C:smartphone

Industriousness

Hard work may be a bad use of various company 36 ......organizations..
it wastes the resources
C: resources

The word 'lazy' in this context refers to people who avoid doing tasks that are 37 ......necessary.. . 
C:unnecessary
carry out the unnecessary tasks

Creativity
chocolate bar
An advertising campaign for a 38 .......chocolate bar......was memorable but failed to boost sales.

Creativity should be used as a response to a particular 39 ........problem........ .

Excellence
According to one study, on average, pioneers had a 40 ....market share.... that was far higher than that of followers.

Companies that always aim at excellence may miss opportunities.

## T6
### S1
Events during Kenton Festival
Example

Start date: ...............16th.............
Opening ceremony (first day)

• In town centre, starting at 1 ..........2.45.........the mayor will make a speech 

A 2 .....band.... will perform

Performance of a 3 .....player... about Helen Tungate (a 4 ....scientist.........)

Evening fireworks display situated across the 5 ......rivers...... .

Other events
• Videos about relationships that children have with their 6 ....grandparents..... .

Venue: 7 .......Handsworth..... House   

• Performance of 8 .....traditional....... dances

Venue: the 9 .....outdoor..... market in the town centre

Time: 2 and 5 pm every day except 1 st day of festival

• Several professional concerts and one by children
Venue: library
Time: 6.30 pm on the 18th
Tickets available online from festival box office and from shops 
which have the festival 10 ....logo....... in their windows

### S2
### S3
### S4
SECTION 4 Questions 31-40
Complete the notes below.
Write ONE WORD ONLY for each answer.

Conflict at work
Conflict mostly consists of behaviour in the general category of 31 .....definitions........ bullying

Often a result of people wanting to prove their 32 ......supervisor........ .

Also caused by differences in 33 ....personality.... between people  34 '...structural...' conflicts: 
people more concerned about own team than about

company
Conflict-related stress can cause 35 ........absence..... that may last for months

Chief Executives (CEOs)
Many have both 36 .........confidence...... and anxiety
May not like to have their decisions questioned
There may be conflict between people who have different 37 .....situations..... .   visions

Other managers
A structure that is more 38 .....democratic...... may create a feeling of uncertainty about who staff should report to. democratic

Minimising conflict
Bosses need to try hard to gain 39 ....respect.....
Someone from outside the company may be given the role of 40 ..organization.... in order to resolve conflicts. mediator
mediator may can help.

---
bullying
democratic
mediator
---

## T7
### S1

SECTION 1 Questions 1-10

Complete the notes below.

Write ONE WORD ONLY for each answer.
PUBLIC LIBRARY
Example
The library re-opened last ...............month ............................

The library now has
• a seating area with magazines
• an expanded section for books on 1 ..........travel.........

• a new section on local 2 .....history.... .
• a community room for meetings (also possible to 3 .....study.... there)
• a new section of books for 4 .....teenagers........

For younger children
• the next Science Club meeting: experiments using things from your 5 ...kitchen.......
- Reading Challenge: read six books during the holidays

For adults
• this Friday: a local author talks about a novel based on a real 6 ....crime.........

• IT support is available on Tuesdays - no 7 ...appointment...... is necessary

• free check of blood 8 .....sugar....... and cholesterol levels (over 60s only)

Other information
• the library shop sells wall-charts, cards and 9 ......stamps.....
• evenings and weekends: free 10 ....parking......... is available

### S2
### S3
A patterns 8 names C sources D questions 
E employees F solutions G headings H officials

STAGES IN DOING A TOURISM CASE STUDY 
RESEARCH 
Locate and read relevant articles, noting key information and also 21 ..................................... . 
information from 
Identify a problem or need 
Select interviewees - these may be site 22 ....... , visitors or  people who work there
city 23 ............ .  administrators oversee tourism

Prepare and carry out interviews. If possible, collect statistics. 
Check whether 24 ...names.... of interviewees can be used  答案读两遍
establish 
or whether they want to be anonymous 匿名的 

ANALYSIS 
Select relevant information and try to identify 25 ..........patterns........... .   trends regularities
Decide on the best form of visuals 

WRITING THE CASE STUDY 
Give some background before writing the main sections 
Do NOT end with 26 .................................... ..


Questions 27-30 
Choose the correct letter, A, B or C. 
The Horton Castle site 
27 Natalie and Dave agree one reason why so few people visit Horton Castle is that 
A the publicity is poor. 
B it is difficult to get to. 
C there is little there of interest. 

28 Natalie and Dave agree that the greatest problem with a visitor centre could be 
A covering the investment costs. 
B finding a big enough space for it. 
C dealing with planning restrictions. 

29 What does Dave say about conditions in the town of Horton? 
A There is a lot of unemployment. 
B There are few people of working age. 
C There are opportunities for skilled workers. 

30 According to Natalie, one way to prevent damage to the castle site would be to 
A insist visitors have a guide. 
B make visitors keep to the paths. 
C limit visitor numbers.

### S4
SECTION 4 Questions 31-40
Complete the notes below.
Write ONE WORD ONLY for each answer.

The effects of environmental change on birds

Mercury (Hg) 汞
• Highly toxic
• Released into the atmosphere from coal
• In water it may be consumed by fish
• It has also recently been found to affect birds which feed on 31 .........insects................ insects
eat insects also be effected

Research on effects of mercury on birds
• Claire Varian-Ramos is investigating:
the effects on birds' 32 ...........behavior......... or mental processes, e.g. memory
the effects on bird song (usually learned from a bird's 33 ..........father........ )  

• Findings:
songs learned by birds exposed to mercury are less 34 .......complex....... 
this may have a negative effect on birds' 35 ....production........... reproduction

• Lab-based studies:
allow more 36 .......confident....... for the experimenter. control
high level control 

Implications for humans
• Migrating birds such as 37 .......ducks..... containing mercury may be eaten by humans
• Mercury also causes problems in learning 38 ......language.......
• Mercury in a mother's body from 39 .....food......... may affect the unborn child . 
• New regulations for mercury emissions will affect everyone's energy 40 ......costs........... ..
increase costs everyone


## T8
### S1
SECTION 1 Questions 1-10
Complete the notes below.
Write ONE WORD AND/OR A NUMBER for each answer.

Cycle tour leader: Applicant enquiry

Example
Name: Margaret .....Smith...... 

About the applicant:
• wants a 1 .............. job temporary

• will soon start work as a 2 ................. . doctor 

• has led cycle trips in 3 ..........Africa.......

• interested in being a leader of a cycling trip for families

• is currently doing voluntary work with members of a 4 ..........youth................ club

• available for five months from the 1 st of 5 .............May..........

• can't eat 6 ....cheese..... .

Contact details:
• address: 27 7 ..................... Place, Dumfries 
• postcode: 8 .........DG74PH........... . DG74PH
Interview:
• interview at 2.30 pm on 9 ..........Tuesday................ . 
• will plan a short 10 ........talk......... about being a tour guide 

### S2
### S3
### S4

SECTION 4 Questions 31-40
Complete the notes below.
Write ONE WORD ONLY for each answer.

Noise in Cities
Past research focused on noise level (measured in decibels) and people's responses.

Noise 'maps'
• show that the highest noise levels are usually found on roads
• do not show other sources of noise, e.g. when windows are open or people's
neighbours are in their 31 ........gardens......

• ignore variations in people's perceptions of noise
• have made people realize that the noise is a 32 .....pilticas.......... issue that 政治的
must be dealt with

Problems caused by noise
• sleep disturbance
• increase in amount of stress
• effect on the 33 ..........study..... of schoolchildren 

Different types of noise
Some noises can be considered pleasant e.g. the sound of a 34 ......fountain........... in a town

To investigate this, researchers may use methods from 35 ...social....
sciences e. g. questionnaires

What people want
• Plenty of activity in urban environments which are 36 .......lively...... , but also allow people to relax
But'architects and town planners

• do not get much 37 .....training....... in acoustics

• regard sound as the responsibility of engineers

Understanding sound as an art form
We need to know
• how sound relates to 38 ....culture.............
• what can be learnt from psychology about the effects of sound
• whether physics can help us understand the 39 ........natural....... of sound nature

Virtual reality programs
• advantage: predict the effect of buildings
• current disadvantage: they are 40 ..........silent............ 