# part1 5-8
## 地点
### Old Buildings
attraction

preserve = protect
### Old building
Have you ever seen some old buildings in the city?

Do you prefer to live in an old building or a modern house?

Are there any old buildings you want to see in the future?

- Do you think we should preserve old buildings in cities?
    - I think we need to protect those buildings with historical value.
    - It can also develop tourism to attract people to visit.

### Meeting Place
见面的地方
- Where do you usually meet your friends?

- Do you think there are particular places that are suitable for meeting others?
    - relatives:casual
## 物
### Watch
Do you wear a watch?

Have you ever got a watch as a gift?

Why do some people wear expensive watches?

I think they wear expensive watches to show their status and wealth


Do you think a watch is important for you?



### Talent

I master xxx skills = the skill is mastered by me

receive education

### Computer
laptop
IT class : computer lab
wear shoes cover to prevent dust entering those computer

surf on the internet
hand in / submit my assignment 

it doesn't really matter
as long as the internet still exists,everything will be fine

network is week / strong

- When was the first time you used a computer?
    - The first time I used a computer was when I had an information class in primary school
    - 

In what conditions would you use a computer?

What would your life be like without computers?

- In what conditions would it be difficult for you to use a computer?
    It would be hard for me to use a computer while on public transport because the network is week
    You see, I work online mainly, and the internet is terrible in her village.


### Advertisement
- Do you want to show in the advertisement?

- What kind of advertisements do you dislike?
    - commercial
        - I never buy  goods that are recommended in commercial advertisements
        - I think they are meaningless / useless to me.
        - xxx endorsed xxx product  -> guailin endorsed a lot of / milk products
    - public service advertisements(PSA)
        - appear sb to do sth. appear children to wash their parents' feet
        - message,slogan

- What kinds of advertisements do you watch?
    - public service advertisements(PSA)
        - appear sb to do sth. appear children to wash their parents' feet
        - message,slogan
    - skip the ads

- Where can you see advertisements?

- Have you ever bought something because of its advertisement?

- Do you watch advertisements from the beginning to the end?

### Reading habits
like how often/when/on what occasion
- kind
    - suspense novels / fictions
    - pulp fictions
    - detective story
    - literary classic: Cuore
    - El amor en los tiemops del colera - the love in the times of cholera k
        -  Gabriel Garcia Marquez
    - Higashino Keigo 东野圭吾
        - reasoning  
- Do you read books?

- Do you read differently now than you did before?
    - Higashino Keigo 东野圭吾
        - reasoning  
        - I felt his stories were kind of different from the detective stories in my mind
    - 美国推理小说
    - Shimada Soji : case of imagination and creativity
    
- Have you ever read a novel that has been adapted into a film?
    - be adapted into 被改编
    - Harry Potter.
    - The king of ring
    - Dune(trailer)
    - Blade Runners (Do Androids dream of electric sheep) 银翼杀手
    - the adapted movies of HP truly restore the scenes in the original novels perfectly.
    - special effects are brilliant.
    - the performance of certain actors impressed me a lot.
- Which do you prefer,reading books or watching films
    - visual and audio affects are amazing
    
    
## 事件 
### Boring things
Are you a person who will often feel bored?

What kinds of things would make you feel boring?

Do you often feel bored?

When will you feel bored?

What will you do when you feel bored?

Whom will you be with when you are bored?
kill the time / chill 
Moon Knight

### Collecting things
- Do you collect things
    - I used to collect cards with my favorite cartoon characters on them.
    - I used to collect all kinds of erasers in my primary school.

- Are there any things you keep from childhood?
    - yeah.
    
- where do you usually keep

- Would you keep old things
    - I'm still using something
- Where do you usually keep things you collect?

### Sitting down
- Where is your favorite place to sit?
    - swivel chairs 转椅
    - When I am tired,I like leaning backwards or lying down. 向后靠
    - I like sitting on the sofa at home.

- Do you always sit down for a long time?
    - egg 中元音
    - apple 低元音
    - sedentary lifestyle 久坐的生活习惯
    - it's harmful / detrimental to my health,suffer from
    - work out
- Do you feel sleepy after you sit down for a while?
    - I feel a little sleepy maybe. It depends on whether I’m tired or not. 
    - Generally, I sleep quite regular hours, so I don’t feel tired until bedtime.
    
- When you were a kid,did you usually sit on the floor.
    - naughty/ pig
    - No, I think it's dirty on the floor, even if it looks clean. 
    - When I was a child, I liked to sit on the leather sofa of my home and watch TV.
    
### Evening time
- Do you like morning or evening?
- What do you usually do in the evening?
- What did you do the evening when you were little
    - play with my friends
- Are there any differences between what you do in the evening now and what you did in the past?

### Doing sports
- What sports do you like
    - table tennis
- Where did you learn how to do it?
    - I joined a table tennis club in junior high school,
- Did you do some sports when you were young?
    - When I was young, I spent most of my exercise in PE Class. We often warm up by running first, 
    - and then do different types of sports according to the teacher's course content.
- Do you think students need more exercise?
    - for chinese students , they don't really realize how important it is to frequently work out.
    - They emphasize too much on studying.
    - They may have good academic results, but they never 
# 5-8 part2
## 地点 
###  重要湖泊 Describe an important river/lake in your country?
You should say:
Where it is located
How big/long it is
What it looks like
And explain why it is important
### part3
- How can rivers/lakes benefit local people
    - The nile 古埃及
    - Mesopotamia 古巴比伦 
    - the Ganges River 古印度
    - The local people benefit from those place where they can get water and farm crops such as the nile,
    - It is a foundation that human activities.
    
- Do you think river/lakes attract tourist
    - lucid /clear but 
    - 大都市 到乡村
    - 风景好看

- How do affect local tourism
    - 

- Are rivers/ lakes good for transport.
    - Especially in ancient times, water helped promote the development of ecour
    
----
Tourism has developed. Tourists can not only enjoy the scenery, but also buy local products, such as some fish and shrimp. 
There are also some activities nearby, such as fishing, barbecue and boating.

Of course, in ancient times, water transportation promoted regional trade and cultural exchanges, thus promoting economic development.

#### 西湖
When I was young, my parents took me there to play.
when it comes to an important lake, I 'd like to talk about the one called the West Lake ,Xi Hu.
When I was young, my parents took me there to play.At that time,I ddi
It is located in Hangzhou, east China which is praised as heaven on earth.
When I was a kid,my parents took me to 

The total area of the scenic spot is 49 square kilometers.

The picturesque Xi Hu is surrounded by elegant landscapes like Three Ponds Mirroring the Moon.
As a famous resort,Xi hu ia a perfect combination of artificiality and nature.
It looks like a traditional Chinese painting.
Xi Hu is often compared to Xizi.The most beautiful woman described in Chinese ancient poems.

It is one of the main ornamental freshwater lakes in Chinese Mainland. It is also one of the few in the world heritage 
list and the only Lake Cultural Heritage in China

#### Yellow River
The yellow river from the Yoguzonglie Basin at the northern foot of the Bayan Har Mountains on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau,
and flows from west to east through nine provinces,Qinghai,Sichuan,Gansu,Ningxia... into the Bohai sea.
The precipitation(rainfall) in the basin is small, mainly dryland agriculture,dye in winter and dry in spring
... is concentrated in summer

The middle and upper reaches of the Yellow River are dominated by mountains,while the middle and lower reaches are 
dominated by plains and hills.Because the middle section of the river flows through the Loess Plateau of China,it 
entries/has a lots of sediment/soil, so it is known as the most sediment in the world.But in Chinese history, the ...
had a huge impact on human civilization

The Yellow River is the most important birthplace(origin) of Chinese civilization, and ...

the world was still in a state of ignorance,
create a splendid / spectacular / magnificent ancient culture.
the time when successive dynasties

oracle bone inscriptions ... precedent egg ; 本e

#### 长江

square kilometers stress -> lo;kilograms stress ->ki

basin river
a drainage area 流水面积
ethnic groups
densely polulated

## 人
### Describe an interesting neighbor. 有趣的邻居
You should say:
Who this person is
How you know this person
What he or she does
And explain why you think this person is interesting

When it comes to an interesting neighbor, I 'd like to talk about the a young girl called Yana.

Because of the serious pandemic, the government has carried out the lockdown policy in ShangHai.
So,almost all the neighbourhoods were closed, and nobody was allowed to get out.
On account of buying some food or other daily necessities for group , We established a group chat on wechat.

Once, I wanted to ask if anyone could have a haircut in group chat. She contacted me at once and said she could cut my
hair for free, even though she told me she was not good at it.I felt really warm and moved.
Then We made an appointment to 
have a haircut in the lobby on the first floor.Well…I found that she is of medium build and above-average height.
In fact, her haircut is very good.

Owning to this experience, we often chat on wechat and become friends.We also hope that this closed life can end as 
soon as possible. And we are going to the amusement park

lock down.

friendly and kind.
She 
- take the nucleic acid test.
- antigen test
- might/may/could

- Do you think people are familiar with their neighbors?
     - 以前交流的多，因为娱乐少
     - 现在交流的少，因为人们喜欢去和熟悉的人聊天通过网络。
     - 由于疫情的影响，为了团购，开始和邻居熟悉起来。

- How can people improve the relationship with neighbors in a community?

- How do children build relationship with others in a community?

- Is it beneficial to get along with neighbors?
    - 
### 想要共事的家人

A family member I’d love to work with in future is my mom. She is full of energy and helpful.

## 事 
### 让你惊讶的事情

## 物
### Describe an invention that has changed the world in a positive way.
What it is, what benefits it has brought, how it influences people, and explain how it changed people’s lives.

When it comes to an invention that has changed the world in a positive way, 
I 'd like to talk about the one is phone.

When I first time used it when I was a kid.I was amazing that I could communicate with my father through my mom's phone.
I used to asked my mother to let me play mobile games at that time.

Now,the phones become more smart.As a tool for communication,it can make phone calls and send messages.
For another,it can be used as a computer as well.We can surf on the internet, get some latest news and watching short
videos through mobile phones.It seems that it becomes a social or work tool in our daily life.

For me, I think the phone is definitely one of the greatest inventions in the world in human history. 
You know, it is and will be an accelerator that could make our lives much more convenient and colorful in the future.
That's why I want to share it.

- what
- lazy
    - For example, the robot sweeps the floor, so we can lie down and play with mobile phones instead of cleaning.
    - Make people reluctant to engage in physical activities
- used at school
    - In the past, teachers used chalk or blackboard in class. However, with the development of technology, 
        the emergence of projector has replaced the original way.
- AI will replace human teachers
    - 



