# 口语

## 人

### part2

#### 感兴趣的名人 Elieen Gu

Describe a famous person you are interested in. Who he/she is, how you knew about him/her, what he/she was like before he/she became famous, and explain why you are interested in him/her.

#### 有名的运动员 Elieen Gu

Describe a famous athlete you know. Who he/she is, how you knew him/her, what he/she has achieved, and explain why he/she is famous.

#### 社交媒体上关注的人 Elieen Gu

Describe a person who you follow on social media. Who he/she is, how you knew him/her, what he/she posts on social media, and explain why you follow him/her on social media.

#### 本国名人  Elieen Gu

Describe a popular person in your country. Who this person is, what he/she had done, why he/she is popular, and explain how you feel about this person.

---

When it comes to a famous athlete I know, it should be Eileen Gu.
I knew **her because of a piece of news**, and it said that **an American skiing athlete was going to represent China at Beijing Winter Olympics**. **So that’s why I started to take interest in her and set out to search for more information about her**.

Well…I found that Eileen is a girl that is of **medium build and above-average height**. We can always see a big smile on her face. I think that shows her confidence. Overall, I guess **nobody can deny** that she is a pretty attractive girl.

**In terms of her achievements in the field of** sports, there is a lot I want to share with you. The first one I can think of is that she can **win three medals including 2 gold ones and 1 silver one at the age of 18**. I believe this is impressive. I can still remember when I was 18, I could only watch these athletes compete in the games. Another achievement I want to talk about is **her influence on our society**. Numerous young people have **been encouraged to be interested in** skiing. And I am no exception.

I also want to say that this **has further promoted the achievement of snow industry**. Maybe we can witness more young people win gold medals at Winter Olympics for our country. So that’s what I want to say about Eileen.



#### 敬佩的商人 Jobs

#### 有趣的外国人 Jobs

#### 有创造力的人 Jobs

#### 小学印象深刻的人 Jobs

#### 对社会有贡献的人 Jobs

乔布斯

-----

#### 见过且想了解的的人 2022.5-8

#### 有趣的邻居 2022.5-8

#### 想要共事的家人 2022.5-8

## 事件

### part 1

#### 9. Boring things

**What kinds of things are boring to you?**

Emm. I think it should be those that I might waste my time.Such as traffic congestion or flight delay.

It usually takes a long time to wait. And it makes me feel very boring and sleepy.

But now,I think I should adjust my mentality.



**What was the most boring thing you did when you were young?**

In terms of the most boring thing I did when I was a freshman , I guess it should be the one that I worked part-time as a customer service to sell houses.

At that time, I sit in a big office with a group of people all day.And I talked with the customers through the same script.It was extremely boring.



**What will you do when you feel bored?**

I will try my best to focus on other interested things when I feel bored,such as listening to music , reading my e-book or watching short videos.



**Do you think school is boring?**

Well,I do not think so.I think school is very interesting.We can study some subjects that we are keen on and make some friends with common hobbies like playing the guitar ,singing and keeping fitness.



#### 10. Collecting things

**Do you collect things?**

I used to collect cards with my favorite cartoon characters on them when I was in a primary school.

**Are there any things you keep from childhood?**

Yeah.These cards are still kept in the drawer in my home room.

When I come back to my hometown,I will occasionally turn them out and have a look.

**Where do you usually keep things you need?**

 Well,I always put things in some boxes,such as some snacks and drinks.

**Would you keep old things for a long time?**

 Actually,not at all.I don't like to keep old things.

I only keep some meaningful old things such as the ring my aunt gave me.

#### 11. **Sitting down**

**Where is your favorite place to sit?**

I tend to sit on my sofa that is **leather** and very soft.When I get home,I will sit on the sofa and have a rest.

**Do you always sit down for a long time?**

 Yeah,I am a programer.Actually,I have to sit in front of the computer all day.

**Do you feel sleepy when you are sitting down?**

 It all depends.If I stayed up late last night,I might be sleepy when I am sitting down for a long time.

But most of the time,I am energetic.

**When you were a kid, did you usually sit on the floor?**

 No,I am a **obsessive** about cleanliness.When I was a liittle girl,I did not sit on the floor although it looked like very clean. 

I still tend to sit on the sofa.



#### 12. **Evening time**

**Do you like morning or evening?**

Actually, I prefer evening.I hate the sunlight becuase I am a littele **allergic** to the **ultraviolet** rays.

**What do you usually do in the evening?**

 I usually do some exercise in the evening,especially when I get home from work.

I will take a shower and eat some salad after exercise.

**What did you do in the evening when you were little?**

 When I was kid,I usually did my homework in the evening.Only when I finished my homework can I watch TV or go out for fun.

**Are there any differences between what you do in the evening now and what you did in the past?**

 The biggest difference is that I can freely arrange my activities in the evening.I am no longer restricted by my parents and school.

I am independent now.I can watch movies or play with friends in the evening.



#### 13.  **Doing sports**

**What sports do you like?**

I enjoying playing ping-ping,I often play it with my friends on weekends.

**Where did you learn how to do it?**

When I was in a primary school,the  PE teacher taught me in indoor training place.And after school,I was often asked to go to trainning.

**Did you do some sports when you were young?**

 Yes, we were required to do some sports for at least harf an hour everyday due to school education.When I was young,I learned a lot of sports such as basketball,badminton and table tennis.

**Do you think students need more exercise?**

Yeah,I think it's very necessay for students to exercise to enhanve their immunity.So they can learn better if they have good health.

### part 2

#### 早起

#### 困难的事

#### 健身方式

#### 积极改变



## 物

### Part1 

#### 20. Watch

***\*Do you wear a watch?\****

Yes,I wear.I usuaully use it to watch time and manage my time.This watch is apple. And it's very smart.

It also can record the states of workout such as heart rate and the calorie. 

***\*Have you ever got a watch as a gift?\****

Yeah.This watch was my birthday present from my friend last year.

He knew I wanted the apple watch for a time.So he bought it for me.

I still remember the happiness when I recieved  the gift.

**\*Why do some people wear expensive watches?\***

Emm.There is a Chinese saying that the poor play with their cars and the rich play with their watches.

So I guess the expensive watches may show their wealth or high social rank.

***\*Do you think a watch is important for you?\****

Yeah. More precisely, it's not the watch,but the habit that I wear a watch is significant.

When I get up,the first thing that I do is wearing my watch.When I get home,I will recharge my watch.

Obviously,the things that become habits are important.So watches are no exception.

#### 21. Talent

***Do you have a talent?***

Yes,I have talent for music. I am good at playing the guitar and singing. When I am free, I enjoy playing and singing by myself.

Sometimes I also performance on the street with my friends.

***Was it mastered recently or when you were younger***

Emmm.I don't remember excatly.I think it was the summer holiday after I graduated from junior high school.I went to music insitution to learn playing the guitar.

***Do you think your talent can be useful for your future work?***

I think it helps a little bit.I am a data engineer now.My main work is coding. And I will continue to work in the IT in the future.

But I was inivited to performance when my last company held some events.I can show myself through some activities.So it can might useful.

***Do you think anyone in your family has the same talent?***

My mom.She is good at sports epecially running.She is a marathon enthusiast. She used to take part in amateur competitions and always got good results and even win money.

#### 22. Computer

***\*When was the first time you used a computer?\****

I think it was when I had my computer class in primary school.

We could play some games in the games webisite after we finished our computer homework.

And what impressed me was that we were asked to wear shoes covers when we entry the computer room.

***\*In what conditions would you use a computer?\****

Because I am a programmar. I use it when I am working like coding and do some data process task.

I also use it to take online classes or watch videos when I am at home.

***\*What would your life be like without computers?\****

Actually,I can't image it. At present,I can‘t live without computer.I have to use it to work.I think I might lose my current job if I do not have computers.

***\*In what conditions would it be difficult for you to use a computer?\****

When the wife signal is poor epecially on high-speed trains or subways.When the waiting sign appears on the website or software, it really annoys me.

#### 23. Advertisement

**What kinds of advertisements do you dislike?**

I hate those commercial advertisements on TV or in the movies.This kind of advertisements affects my watching experience.

 

**Do you share advertisements with others?**

Yeah,I share some creative ads,such as 

**Are you interested in watching TV advertisements or internet advertisements?**

Yes,

**Do you want to work in advertising in the future?**

Maybe

## 地点
edit in the github
