## T1
### P1
7. same possibilities = equal opportunities
11. in positions of power = government officials or in Plato's term,philosopher-kings
12. abilities = competencies
    - ability = competence = capability
### P2 Why zoos are good
14. a reference to how **quickly** animal species can **die out**
    - quickly = increasingly
    - die out = risk extinction
    - colossal numbers of = a great quantity number of = huge 
15. reasons why it is preferable to study animals in captivity rather than in the wild
    - in captivity = 囚禁；圈养；= in zoos
    - in the wild = wild populations
    - preferable = less risk and fewer variable
    
16. mention of two ways of learning about animals other than visiting them in zoos
    - two ways = television , natural history specimens are on display in museums
#### 判断
18. An animal is likely to live longer in a zoo than in the wild.  TRUE
    - live longer = have a quality of life as high as,or higher than 
19. There are some species in zoos which can no longer be found in the wild. 
    - a good number of species only exist in captivity,with many of these living in zoos.
21. Zoos have always excelled at transmitting information about animals to the public.  FALSE
    - This was an area where zoos used to be lacking.
22. Studying animals in zoos is less stressful for the animals than studying them in the wild. NOT GIVEN
### P3 Motivational factors and the hospitality industry
#### matching
Questions 27-31
Look at the following statements (Questions 27-31) and the list of researchers below. Match each statement with the correct researcher,
A-F. Write the correct letter, A-F, in boxes 27-31 on your answer sheet. 
 
NB You may use any letter more than once. 

27. Hotel managers need to know what would encourage good staff to remain.  E
    - need to know = requires an understanding of 
    - encourage = inspire
    - retain = remain 保留 = maintain

28. The actions of managers may make staff feel they shouldn’t move to a different employer. D
    - they shouldn’t move to a different employer = feel more obligated to stay with the company

29. Little is done in the hospitality industry to help workers improve their skills. B
    - little is done = does not appear 
    - help workers improve their skills = enables developing and drawing out the full potential

30. Staff are less likely to change jobs if cooperation is encouraged. D
    - cooperation = work together
    - less likely to change jobs = feel more obligated to stay with the company
    - feel/be obligated to 感到有义务去做某事 

31. Dissatisfaction with pay is not the only reason why hospitality workers change jobs.C
    - not the only = among the many
    - low compensation = dissatisfaction with pay
    - change jobs = high employee turnover 
----
List of Researchers

A Pfeffer x

B Lucas ---

C Maroudas et al.
 
D Ng and Sorensen ---

E Enz and Siguaw ---

F Deery x

----

#### 判断
32. One reason for high staff turnover in the hospitality industry is poor morale. YES

33. Research has shown that staff have a tendency to dislike their workplace. NO
    - no evidence exists to support this hypothesis
    
34. An improvement in working conditions and job security makes staff satisfied with their jobs. NO
    - the reduction of dissatisfaction /= makes staff satisfied with 
    
35. Staff should be allowed to choose when they take breaks during the working day. Not given
    - the hospitality allowing adequate breaks 
    - adequate / enough / sufficient / abundant 足够

## T2
### P1
### P2
### P3

## T3
### P1 the coconut palm 椰子树
### P2
### P3

## T4
### P1 航海 帆船
#### vocab
- faster canal = clippers
- witch 女巫

- be depicted in
    - describe
    - picture
    - portrayed
   
- contract 合同

- prestige 声望

- wool 羊毛

- gale / wind 

- harbour 港口

#### question set
- favoured / benefit = in a very strong position
- beat back != reached ... a week later
- steams ships faster than clippers 
    - steams ships could make use of quick, direct route between ..,the canal was of no use to sailing ships
    - steams ships reduce the time between ... and .. by approximately two months.

### P2 土壤
#### vocab
- decompose 分解
- degradation 退化
- minerals 矿物质
- lock in ... , holding = store
- synthetic fertiliser 合成肥料
- pierce 刺穿
- property = building
- infrastructure = roads and bridge
- put back into = return 
#### question set
### P3 幸福产业
#### vocab
- astonishingly 
    - amazingly
    - surprisingly
- crude 
    - rough;
    - raw;natural
- capitalism 资本主义
- oblivious
    - to forget
#### question set
- think in this way are oblivious to the vast  = ignorant about ... the should be considering
- established a connection between work and psychology = entangling of psychological and capitalism
    - connection = entangling 
    - work = capitalism
- research on humans he carried out != he had never ever studied a single human being

    


 
